aws-iac-tutorials/AWS - Elasticsearch - EKS - ECK - Deploy Elastic Stack with Helm Chart.md, before:

## DOCS:
https://www.elastic.co/docs/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/managing-deployments-using-helm-chart

Starting from ECK 2.4.0, a Helm chart is available for managing Elastic Stack resources using the ECK Operator. It is available from the Elastic Helm repository and can be added to your Helm repository list by running the following command:
```
helm repo add elastic https://helm.elastic.co 
helm repo update
```

The Elastic Stack (`eck-stack`) Helm chart is built on top of individual charts such as `eck-elasticsearch` and `eck-kibana`. For more details on its structure and dependencies, refer to the [chart repository](https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/tree/main/deploy/eck-stack/).
## Prerequisites:

- AWS EKS 1.32
- aws-ebs-csi-driver
- ECK 3.0.0
- Elasticsearch 9.0

## Create EKS Cluster
[[AWS - EKSCTL - EKS Cluster Deployment]]

## aws-ebs-csi-driver Installation
[[AWS - EKS - StorageClass - aws-ebs-csi-driver Installation]]

## ECK Operator Deployment
[[AWS - Elasticsearch - EKS - ECK - Elasticsearch & Kibana deployment]]

```
kubectl create -f https://download.elastic.co/downloads/eck/3.0.0/crds.yaml
```

```
kubectl apply -f https://download.elastic.co/downloads/eck/3.0.0/operator.yaml
```
## Elastic-Stack Deployment
https://www.elastic.co/docs/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/managing-deployments-using-helm-chart#k8s-install-logstash-elasticsearch-kibana-helm

```
# Install an eck-managed Elasticsearch, Kibana, Beats and Logstash using custom values. helm install eck-stack-with-logstash elastic/eck-stack \ --values https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/{{eck_release_branch}}/deploy/eck-stack/examples/logstash/basic-eck.yaml -n elastic-stack
```

create ns 
```
kubectl create ns elastic-stack
```

install the elastic-stack
```
helm install eck-stack-with-logstash elastic/eck-stack \
    --values https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/3.0/deploy/eck-stack/examples/logstash/basic-eck.yaml -n elastic-stack
```





```
Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: 1 error occurred:
        * admission webhook "elastic-beat-validation-v1beta1.k8s.elastic.co" denied the request: Beat.beat.k8s.elastic.co "eck-stack-with-logstash-eck-beats" is invalid: [spec.daemonSet: Forbidden: Specify either daemonSet or deployment, not both, spec.deployment: Forbidden: Specify either daemonSet or deployment, not both, spec: Invalid value: v1beta1.BeatSpec{Type:"filebeat", Version:"9.0.0", ElasticsearchRef:v1.ObjectSelector{Namespace:"", Name:"", ServiceName:"", SecretName:""}, KibanaRef:v1.ObjectSelector{Namespace:"", Name:"", ServiceName:"", SecretName:""}, Image:"", Config:(*v1.Config)(0xc0000ab880), ConfigRef:(*v1.ConfigSource)(nil), SecureSettings:[]v1.SecretSource(nil), ServiceAccountName:"", DaemonSet:(*v1beta1.DaemonSetSpec)(0xc00062d888), Deployment:(*v1beta1.DeploymentSpec)(0xc00062dc08), Monitoring:v1.Monitoring{Metrics:v1.MetricsMonitoring{ElasticsearchRefs:[]v1.ObjectSelector(nil)}, Logs:v1.LogsMonitoring{ElasticsearchRefs:[]v1.ObjectSelector(nil)}}, RevisionHistoryLimit:(*int32)(nil)}: either daemonset or deployment must be specified]
```

Commit message:

edit Deploy Elastic Stack with Helm Chart

aws-iac-tutorials/AWS - Elasticsearch - EKS - ECK - Deploy Elastic Stack with Helm Chart.md, after:

## DOCS:
https://www.elastic.co/docs/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/managing-deployments-using-helm-chart

Starting from ECK 2.4.0, a Helm chart is available for managing Elastic Stack resources using the ECK Operator. It is available from the Elastic Helm repository and can be added to your Helm repository list by running the following command:
```
helm repo add elastic https://helm.elastic.co 
helm repo update
```

The Elastic Stack (`eck-stack`) Helm chart is built on top of individual charts such as `eck-elasticsearch` and `eck-kibana`. For more details on its structure and dependencies, refer to the [chart repository](https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/tree/main/deploy/eck-stack/).
## Prerequisites:

- AWS EKS 1.32
- aws-ebs-csi-driver
- ECK 3.0.0
- Elasticsearch 9.0

## Create EKS Cluster
[[AWS - EKSCTL - EKS Cluster Deployment]]

## Install aws-ebs-csi-driver
[[AWS - EKS - StorageClass - aws-ebs-csi-driver Installation]]

## Deploy ECK Operator
[[AWS - Elasticsearch - EKS - ECK - Deploy Elasticsearch cluster & Kibana instance]]

```
kubectl create -f https://download.elastic.co/downloads/eck/3.0.0/crds.yaml
```

```
kubectl apply -f https://download.elastic.co/downloads/eck/3.0.0/operator.yaml
```
## Elastic-Stack Deployment
https://www.elastic.co/docs/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/managing-deployments-using-helm-chart#k8s-install-logstash-elasticsearch-kibana-helm

```
# Install an eck-managed Elasticsearch, Kibana, Beats and Logstash using custom values. helm install eck-stack-with-logstash elastic/eck-stack \ --values https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/{{eck_release_branch}}/deploy/eck-stack/examples/logstash/basic-eck.yaml -n elastic-stack
```

create ns 
```
kubectl create ns elastic-stack
```

install the elastic-stack
```
helm install eck-stack-with-logstash elastic/eck-stack \
    --values https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/3.0/deploy/eck-stack/examples/logstash/basic-eck.yaml -n elastic-stack
```


## Troubleshooting

When you deploy the elastic-stack with above tutorial, a error will occur as follows:
```
Error: INSTALLATION FAILED: 1 error occurred:
        * admission webhook "elastic-beat-validation-v1beta1.k8s.elastic.co" denied the request: Beat.beat.k8s.elastic.co "eck-stack-with-logstash-eck-beats" is invalid: [spec.daemonSet: Forbidden: Specify either daemonSet or deployment, not both, spec.deployment: Forbidden: Specify either daemonSet or deployment, not both, spec: Invalid value: v1beta1.BeatSpec{Type:"filebeat", Version:"9.0.0", ElasticsearchRef:v1.ObjectSelector{Namespace:"", Name:"", ServiceName:"", SecretName:""}, KibanaRef:v1.ObjectSelector{Namespace:"", Name:"", ServiceName:"", SecretName:""}, Image:"", Config:(*v1.Config)(0xc0000ab880), ConfigRef:(*v1.ConfigSource)(nil), SecureSettings:[]v1.SecretSource(nil), ServiceAccountName:"", DaemonSet:(*v1beta1.DaemonSetSpec)(0xc00062d888), Deployment:(*v1beta1.DeploymentSpec)(0xc00062dc08), Monitoring:v1.Monitoring{Metrics:v1.MetricsMonitoring{ElasticsearchRefs:[]v1.ObjectSelector(nil)}, Logs:v1.LogsMonitoring{ElasticsearchRefs:[]v1.ObjectSelector(nil)}}, RevisionHistoryLimit:(*int32)(nil)}: either daemonset or deployment must be specified]
```

To fix this problem, the demo value file [basic-eck.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/3.0/deploy/eck-stack/examples/logstash/basic-eck.yaml) should delete `daemonSet: null` part. Also I have commit PR to the official GitHub repo, thr URL link is 
https://github.com/elastic/cloud-on-k8s/pull/8618

## Validate the stack
