aws-iac-tutorials/AWS - Terraform - tutorials - 1 - 3. application deploy - apache2.md, before:

## References:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLB_c_ayRMo

## Application Deployment - apache2

main.tf
```
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 5.0"
    }
  }
}

# Configure the AWS Provider
provider "aws" {
  region     = "us-east-1"
  # config your access key  
  # config your security key  
}

# 1. Create a VPC
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/5.69.0/docs/resources/vpc
resource "aws_vpc" "prod-vpc" {
  cidr_block = "10.0.0.0/16"

  tags = {
    Name = "tag-prod-vpc"
  }
}

# 2. Create Internet Gateway
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/internet_gateway
resource "aws_internet_gateway" "prod-gw" {
  vpc_id = aws_vpc.prod-vpc.id

}

# 3. Create Custom Route Table
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route_table
resource "aws_route_table" "prod-route-table" {
  vpc_id = aws_vpc.prod-vpc.id

  route {
    cidr_block = "0.0.0.0/0"
    gateway_id = aws_internet_gateway.prod-gw.id
  }

  route {
    ipv6_cidr_block        = "::/0"
    gateway_id = aws_internet_gateway.prod-gw.id
  }

  tags = {
    Name = "tag-prod-route-table"
  }
}

# 4. Create a subnet
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/5.69.0/docs/resources/subnet
resource "aws_subnet" "prod-subnet-1" {
  vpc_id     = aws_vpc.prod-vpc.id
  cidr_block = "10.0.1.0/24"
  availability_zone = "us-east-1a"

  tags = {
    Name = "tag-prod-subnet-1"
  }
}

# 5. Associate subnet with Route Table
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route_table_association
resource "aws_route_table_association" "a" {
  subnet_id      = aws_subnet.prod-subnet-1.id
  route_table_id = aws_route_table.prod-route-table.id
}



# 6. Create Security Group to allow port 22,80,443
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group
resource "aws_security_group" "allow_web" {
  name        = "allow_web_traffic"
  description = "Allow Web inbound traffic and all outbound traffic"
  vpc_id      = aws_vpc.prod-vpc.id

  tags = {
    Name = "tag_allow_web"
  }
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_ingress_rule" "allow_https_ipv4" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv4         = "0.0.0.0/0"
  from_port         = 443
  ip_protocol       = "tcp"
  to_port           = 443
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_ingress_rule" "allow_http_ipv4" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv4         = "0.0.0.0/0"
  from_port         = 80
  ip_protocol       = "tcp"
  to_port           = 80
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_ingress_rule" "allow_ssh_ipv4" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv4         = "0.0.0.0/0"
  from_port         = 22
  ip_protocol       = "tcp"
  to_port           = 22
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_egress_rule" "allow_all_traffic_ipv4" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv4         = "0.0.0.0/0"
  ip_protocol       = "-1" # semantically equivalent to all ports
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_egress_rule" "allow_all_traffic_ipv6" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv6         = "::/0"
  ip_protocol       = "-1" # semantically equivalent to all ports
}

# 7. Create a network interface with an ip in the subnet that create in step 4
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/network_interface
resource "aws_network_interface" "web-server-nic" {
  subnet_id       = aws_subnet.prod-subnet-1.id
  private_ips     = ["10.0.1.4"]
  security_groups = [aws_security_group.allow_web.id]
}


# 8. Assign an elastic IP to the network interface create in step 7
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/eip
resource "aws_eip" "one" {
  domain                    = "vpc"
  network_interface         = aws_network_interface.web-server-nic.id
  associate_with_private_ip = "10.0.1.4"
  depends_on = [ aws_internet_gateway.prod-gw ]
  #Note: EIP may require IGW to exist prior to association. Use depends_on to set an explicit dependency on the IGW.
}




# 9. Create Ubuntu server and install/enable apache2

# Create a EC2 instance
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/instance
resource "aws_instance" "web-server-instance" {
  ami           = "ami-0a0e5d9c7acc336f1"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  availability_zone = "us-east-1a"
  key_name = "elephant-key-pair-4"

  network_interface {
    device_index = 0
    network_interface_id = aws_network_interface.web-server-nic.id
  }

  user_data = <<-EOF
              #!/bin/bash
              sudo apt update -y
              sudo apt install apache2 -y
              sudo systemctl start apache2
              sudo bash -c "echo your very first web server > /var/www/html/index.html"
              EOF

  tags = {
    Name = "tag-web-server-instance"
  }
}

```


## Check the status

```
terraform

terraform state

terraform state list
 
terraform state show ****

```

```

terraform destroy -target ****
terraform apply   -target ****

```

Commit message:

edit terraform aws credicials config

aws-iac-tutorials/AWS - Terraform - tutorials - 1 - 3. application deploy - apache2.md, after:

## References:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLB_c_ayRMo

## Application Deployment - apache2

main.tf
```
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs
terraform {
  required_providers {
    aws = {
      source  = "hashicorp/aws"
      version = "~> 5.0"
    }
  }
}

# Configure the AWS Provider
provider "aws" {
  region     = "us-east-1"
  # access_key and secret_key are removed to use the AWS credentials file
}

# 1. Create a VPC
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/5.69.0/docs/resources/vpc
resource "aws_vpc" "prod-vpc" {
  cidr_block = "10.0.0.0/16"

  tags = {
    Name = "tag-prod-vpc"
  }
}

# 2. Create Internet Gateway
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/internet_gateway
resource "aws_internet_gateway" "prod-gw" {
  vpc_id = aws_vpc.prod-vpc.id

}

# 3. Create Custom Route Table
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route_table
resource "aws_route_table" "prod-route-table" {
  vpc_id = aws_vpc.prod-vpc.id

  route {
    cidr_block = "0.0.0.0/0"
    gateway_id = aws_internet_gateway.prod-gw.id
  }

  route {
    ipv6_cidr_block        = "::/0"
    gateway_id = aws_internet_gateway.prod-gw.id
  }

  tags = {
    Name = "tag-prod-route-table"
  }
}

# 4. Create a subnet
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/5.69.0/docs/resources/subnet
resource "aws_subnet" "prod-subnet-1" {
  vpc_id     = aws_vpc.prod-vpc.id
  cidr_block = "10.0.1.0/24"
  availability_zone = "us-east-1a"

  tags = {
    Name = "tag-prod-subnet-1"
  }
}

# 5. Associate subnet with Route Table
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/route_table_association
resource "aws_route_table_association" "a" {
  subnet_id      = aws_subnet.prod-subnet-1.id
  route_table_id = aws_route_table.prod-route-table.id
}



# 6. Create Security Group to allow port 22,80,443
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/security_group
resource "aws_security_group" "allow_web" {
  name        = "allow_web_traffic"
  description = "Allow Web inbound traffic and all outbound traffic"
  vpc_id      = aws_vpc.prod-vpc.id

  tags = {
    Name = "tag_allow_web"
  }
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_ingress_rule" "allow_https_ipv4" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv4         = "0.0.0.0/0"
  from_port         = 443
  ip_protocol       = "tcp"
  to_port           = 443
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_ingress_rule" "allow_http_ipv4" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv4         = "0.0.0.0/0"
  from_port         = 80
  ip_protocol       = "tcp"
  to_port           = 80
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_ingress_rule" "allow_ssh_ipv4" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv4         = "0.0.0.0/0"
  from_port         = 22
  ip_protocol       = "tcp"
  to_port           = 22
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_egress_rule" "allow_all_traffic_ipv4" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv4         = "0.0.0.0/0"
  ip_protocol       = "-1" # semantically equivalent to all ports
}

resource "aws_vpc_security_group_egress_rule" "allow_all_traffic_ipv6" {
  security_group_id = aws_security_group.allow_web.id
  cidr_ipv6         = "::/0"
  ip_protocol       = "-1" # semantically equivalent to all ports
}

# 7. Create a network interface with an ip in the subnet that create in step 4
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/network_interface
resource "aws_network_interface" "web-server-nic" {
  subnet_id       = aws_subnet.prod-subnet-1.id
  private_ips     = ["10.0.1.4"]
  security_groups = [aws_security_group.allow_web.id]
}


# 8. Assign an elastic IP to the network interface create in step 7
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/eip
resource "aws_eip" "one" {
  domain                    = "vpc"
  network_interface         = aws_network_interface.web-server-nic.id
  associate_with_private_ip = "10.0.1.4"
  depends_on = [ aws_internet_gateway.prod-gw ]
  #Note: EIP may require IGW to exist prior to association. Use depends_on to set an explicit dependency on the IGW.
}




# 9. Create Ubuntu server and install/enable apache2

# Create a EC2 instance
# https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/instance
resource "aws_instance" "web-server-instance" {
  ami           = "ami-0a0e5d9c7acc336f1"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"
  availability_zone = "us-east-1a"
  key_name = "elephant-key-pair-4"

  network_interface {
    device_index = 0
    network_interface_id = aws_network_interface.web-server-nic.id
  }

  user_data = <<-EOF
              #!/bin/bash
              sudo apt update -y
              sudo apt install apache2 -y
              sudo systemctl start apache2
              sudo bash -c "echo your very first web server > /var/www/html/index.html"
              EOF

  tags = {
    Name = "tag-web-server-instance"
  }
}

```


## Check the status

```
terraform

terraform state

terraform state list
 
terraform state show ****

```

```

terraform destroy -target ****
terraform apply   -target ****

```
